# N-point-Hedging-Rule

In this study, a platform has been developed to find the optimal coordinates of n-point hedging rule for an agricultural reservoir using the genetic algorithm (GA). This platform written in MATLAB can be modified for any agricultural reservoir considering different objective function. The Hyrum Reservoir as the agricultural reservoir in the Bear River system is considered as the case study and the platform is executed for different values for n-point (1, 5, 10, 20, and 40) under minimizing the vulnerability indicator. In addition, the values for vulnerability achieved by the GA are compared to the standard linear operation policy (SLOP). Results indicated that there are no differences between the optimal n-point hedging rule found by GA and the SLOP in terms of vulnerability. After analyzing the results, the author found that the water availability is more than the amount of demand related to the demand sites of the Hyrum reservoir in all period of the operation. In other words, there is a spill from the reservoir for all the period of operation. That’s why the vulnerability for all n-point hedging rule achieved by the GA is similar to the vulnerability calculated based on the SLOP. Therefore, it is recommended that the operators of the Hyrum reservoir keep using the SLOP until there is a development in the agricultural field that leads to increasing the amount of the demand. In developing situation, they can run the platform to achieve the optimal n-point hedging rule in terms of minimizing the vulnerability or even other objective functions.
